Hello again you terrific.
To people.
I'm not even sure for the Easter I forget but we use it now because you're terrific in this video.
We're going to add night vision mode.
No this isn't just a cosmetic thing right.
I want some actual gameplay elements here I want the players to make a difficult choice.
This is all about risk and reward.
So Watson like vision to be in our game.
Well it's gonna allow players to see the dark.
Right now we have a slightly dark level going to make it much much darker and allow the players to engage
in night vision mode.
However we're going to make it so that some information is available in dark mode and other information
is in night vision mode.
For example later in this section probably the next video we can have all the torches only visible in
dark mode so you won't be able to see if you're in line of sight in night vision mode.
Other information will only be visible in night vision mode.
So we're going to make players have to pick and choose moment by moment what's going to happen.
We're also give us a cooldown.
I don't want to play to spam this quickly.
It's going to be an actual risk.
So let's get started.
We'll be using canvas modulator.
If you look at the Hague you have it's nice grey color and lets us open the template level what we're
gonna be doing is changing the color parameter in all the color property and canvas modulate between
a dark gray and a sort of cyber green.
That's the one to rename it.
So right click and I'm gonna call you vision mode.
Congratulations vision mode on your brand new name.
I'm just gonna take this out of this scene and make its own scenes when right click on it and go save
branch as scene and let's make a brand new folder and call this interface with not random capitals in
it and vision Modoc TSC and we'll live in interface and this is now its own scene that's been instance
in Temperley level so we can go into vision mode and change it here.
I'm separating this out because vision mode is something I want people to work on separately without
worrying about template levels thusly what I do is I'm going to give it its own script so let's give
it a script called Vision mode in the interface Holder done and let's go and grab the color we're using
so right now we've got this gray color so I'm going to left click here and just copy this parameter
I mean he's a constant called Dark.
Now when you're writing constants and remember constants of variables that would not change your runtime
it's really good practice to put them in capital letters that way when you're editing a script in a
few months or a couple of years and you see a variable name in capitals you know I shouldn't change
that.
That's a that's a constant I should only change that between runs not during runtime and woops was not
given that I need to set a value for this and this can be color with a capital C because color with
a small C is not the same.
And let's set this color.
Now we have to come back.
We have various options.
We could use all G.B. Alpha RG B integer from string from using string from so little string close the
string and there's our color dot is now set.
Let's pick a different color.
I'm going to pick a nice vibrant green.
I'm gonna change it later and let's call you night vision
and paste that in there.
Good looking nice and fancy.
Now let's give it a ready function and just make sure that whatever we've done in between runs and what
we're editing it with setting the right color.
So let's say color equals dark.
Whoops I'm ready.
When we when we start the game which can make sure the vision is in the right place.
OK so far so good.
However we now need to be able to switch vision modes and to do this.
I'm gonna go into the play scene and we've already got this input here.
Right now we're doing this toggle torch.
So if a press toggle torch which currently is spacebar my game then if the torch is on switch it off
and vice versa.
Bit of a problem here because if I go into my characters and I open my placing I'll remove the torch.
So if I try this you're in the Ames press play game crash because there is no torch.
I'm toggling something that doesn't exist but we can reuse this one or do.
Well first to change this.
This is no longer told torch.
So it's going to project settings input map.
Scroll down to topple torch.
I'm going to rename this to toggle vision mode.
And I can type in toggle vision mode there it goes.
And now what I want to do is I want to tell the vision mode seen do this function.
My arm will touch.
Do a function called Cycle vision modes and say OK now do this.
However if we look at the template level the player is here in the vision mode is here.
So how are we going to move it across.
Now we could say go back up to your parent then back down to a child vision mode and do it this way.
But that's really clunky.
What happens if we rename it.
Like I've just renamed vision mode.
What happens if we decide later the vision mode needs to be in a different place or child of a different
thing or we move the player.
This isn't really scalable.
So instead I want to use a group and let's take a quick moment to remind us of the difference in groups
and signals.
OK.
So signals signals connect to a direct node.
All nodes have a certain amount of signals built.
So for example a timer has something called timeout.
You can connect the timeout signal to another node whenever the timeout signal happens when the timer
does a thing it knows is going to happen.
It'll send a signal and we can define our own signals right so in script we could say OK connect this
signal and when this part of the script happens emit the signal.
This is great for linking an event or function to a single node.
But what if you don't know where that node is or you have lots and lots and lots of nodes which we will
have.
Well in that case we might want to use groups groups or broadcasts or Rovner a single message from one
note to another which is going to shout out to the world.
Anything that's part of the group interface.
If you have a function called Cycle vision modes cycle vision modes this is fantastic.
We can use get tree core group to call the function and let each node figure out if it's relevant.
Now the downside of this is we'd be very careful when we're typing.
If I call a group could interface with a lowercase i and the actual group is interface with a capital
I got I won't give me an error that is a valid group call but nothing will listen to it the same thing's
going to happen with the functions just because I'm in a group doesn't mean I have that function.
If you call a group and a node is in that group it doesn't have that function it'll just ignore the
call.
This can be very useful.
Maybe some members of the group have a function because you want to do something and other members the
group don't have that specific function but they have other functions that will do later.
So we can use this beginning to be very careful how we use this.
Okay.
So how good is it.
Well let's get into a play a scene and open the play script and I'm going to use gets tree core group
and I'm going to call group interface and the group interface is going to have a cycle vision mode.
Great.
So now this one crashes press play
and the game runs fine.
I'm hammering space nothing's going wrong but you'll notice nothing has this function name so no error
is being called and there's nothing in this group.
Let's fix that second problem.
Nothing in the script.
There's two ways we could fix this.
We could go into the vision mode script and on ready we could say add to group interface making sure
that we put the capitalization right and that'll work fine.
However as I'm not really changing the group at runtime I'm not going to do that.
Instead I'm going to open my visual arts scene and go to node and instead of signals I want groups and
I'm gonna write interface.
Add that this way I can see the inspector that is a member of this group has got to make it much easier
for me when editing if I needed to change it at runtime I could absolutely do that okay.
So we now have this and let's give it a new function and to call this cycle vision mode and because
of my typing I'm just going to check that I've written that right.
That's going to player cycle vision mode.
You'll notice I didn't put brackets here because I'm calling it as a group.
I don't need the brackets that will be handled here automatically.
So let's just copy that and make sure that my typing is not as bad as I think it is.
That's looking good.
All right.
So what are we going to do.
Well I'm going to put a simple function here.
If color is equal to night vision.
Dark Cloud.
Then I'll make a branding function called Dark Cloud.
And you know what I would put dark in capitals so I know that this is referring to that that constant
is complaining it doesn't have that yet.
So let's put that in function.
Dark mode.
There it is.
And that's just going to be color equals dark so if we're not in night vision we're in dock mode.
We currently only have two vision modes however we could have lots.
We could have a predator vision we could have an infrared.
You could do whatever you wanted.
But right now I'm gonna have to say I'm putting.
Else and I'm saying night vision mode.
Night vision mode and it's gonna complain because I don't have that function so I can do the same thing
here.
So functional.
Whoops.
Just make sure you guys use your typing.
Night vision whoops night vision lots of opening today in fact there's a lot more boobs than you might
think.
This is my second time recording this video because I forgot that my mike was muted so I have a very
long unedited video with no sound.
So let's do it with sound night vision mode and that's just going to be go away please.
There we go.
Color equals night vision
all right.
So that should work right.
Have a good space.
I can now change vision modes and that's looking pretty fancy and I quite like that shade of green.
It's a little bit sickly but that's fine.
So far so good.
Let's add a little bit more to this.
I want to put an audio stream player because if we look at the sound effects as effects you'll see we
have night vision and my vision off.
So can double click on this and I can preview it pretty and Spectre and pressing play and night vision
off looking pretty good.
So easiest way to do this.
Let's add in an audio stream plan and press control a press plus an audio stream play a 2D.
And we have this stream.
I'm not gonna set it the inspector showed a mouse over it see what the property is and I'm gonna change
it in scripts so if we go into dark mode this is switching off night vision right.
So let's say audio stream player dot stream equals and I want to load in this final.
Right.
This file needs to be treated as an object.
So for that I'm going to use load and now all I can do is just drag in night vision mode off.
OK.
So that's going to set the stream it's not a player.
So make sure we play the string audio stream player 2D dot play now.
Quick tip just make sure this isn't looping so click on your file go to import.
Just make sure Looper switched off if it's on switch it off and press re import.
If you don't press re import it won't stick and you really don't want this looping sound because that'll
mean the moment you press it.
It'll just keep playing.
OK.
So that's all looking good.
Now I'm do it on the copy that's if I'm not duplicating what control B and I go down a little.
So like both of these and then ult and down arrow and just drag them down.
Now we need to do is change the file we're loading scenes here of my vision off and I'm going to drag
in night vision and this way I have to copy and paste and I have to type it out I'll just drag it and
that's looking pretty good.
Quick reminder this is a string reference.
If you move this file this will no longer work.
However it's a lot better than putting everything in a singleton.
So with that said let's see if we have a sound effect.
Does that make a huge difference.
Downside though if I have the space button I can make a little grave.
I don't want to do that.
I want at least a one second pause between changing vision modes so the player compress it.
But the vision mode just won't respond.
And that is my challenge for you.
I would like you to use a timer node to set a cooldown on mode changes to figure out where you gonna
put your time and figure out how to check for if you're in cooldown and put the timing right.
Pause the video give it a shot.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution
and look back.
OK I'm going to put my time on hold in vision mode.
I'm not going to put it in play mode because player currently is not checking what the vision mode is.
It's just receiving the input the player is all about moving and interacting is not about changing vision
modes.
If I put it in here I'm going to need some way of checking if we're in cooldown instead let's put it
here.
So add in a time of note let's take a look at the settings wait time of a second.
That sounds good to me.
I do want to be a one shot.
This will not just keep going right.
If it's true it'll stop at zero.
Don't keep going.
Stop at zero.
It is not going to alter start.
That will be annoying.
Now I need to connect this is a signals node and out of groups back to signal timeout.
Connect Activision mode.
We have this lovely function on time a timeout.
Great.
Now I'm going to add in a new variable.
I'm going to call this cooldown.
That's a smart cooldown.
I was that the false.
We are not currently in cooldown.
I could call in cooldown is cooling down on the cool cooldown for now picking good variable names is
hard.
Okay.
So when a start with cooldown equals false.
Now when we cycle the vision mode I just need to add in a another layer to this if condition.
So let's go if not cool down which is the same as saying If cooldown equals false or if cooldown is
not true.
And I so highlight these and press tab and that's gonna work fine.
However two more things I need to do.
One need a set cooldowns true otherwise none of this makes sense and I need to start the timer timer
dot start.
Finally on time a time out needs a change called out to force.
So cool down equals false.
Now there are various different ways you could do this is the one I would be picking.
Let's see how it looks.
So first I haven't crashed the game and if I try and Spam button it'll allow it once every second.
Otherwise it's just gonna ignore the input.
It's not me any error messages no crashing just gonna ignore the input and that is looking pretty good.
One more thing I want to do.
Let's make the level actually darker.
So I'm going to come out of here and let's go to vision mode and set you to almost black.
How about 1 1 1 1 1 1 does that look like do you remember to change this in script.
If you don't it's just going to reset it to what have we typed in.
Let's see how that looks.
Now that's a lot more atmospheric isn't it.
You could just about see the torches are very visible.
Everything else is dark.
I go into night vision.
Everything's really clear.
However the torches are visible.
They'll be gone.
Downside to this is now when I get to edit the level and a 2D mode that's too dark to see.
So here's what to do on the vision mode see I'm going to make this invisible and get a high vision mode.
If we say that like the level is now my son bright again.
And just to make doubly sure.
Let's go into vision mode and make sure that it's not hidden.
So when I click on the vision mode the visibility and the properties code visible and let's just make
sure that already visible equals true.
So when we first play it's nice and dark with night vision and when we edit the level and got to see
mode it's nice and light and easy to play with.
And that is some really good progress.
Look at that.
So this is nice and editable.
We have a vision mode that actually make some sort of sense we've got this nice nice dark level.
I'm really happy with that.
So in this video we've looked at how to use groups and how to use canvas modulate to switch between
vision modes.
Remember you could add as many visuals as you like.
I'm just a bit too in the game because it's what I've designed the game around but there's nothing stopping
you from putting in a bunch of different ones.
Meanwhile excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.